# Dependency Management and Containerization

**I'll update this doc once I'm at home. For now, all the mysterious things are happening in the `Dockerfile`, and `docker-compose.yml`.**

Hi, I'll try to explain here about what I did (and the rationale behind those decisions), and how I did them. You'll still have to read additional resources.

## Dependency Management

For dependency management I've chosen `pdm` over `poetry` and `pipenv`. It is faster than both of the contenders.

## Containerization

For this I've used `docker` along with `docker-compose`.

In a nutshell, docker compose allow you to manage containers in an orchestrated manner. Like we can create PostgreSQL service, and our server service and link them in an internal network.

In the `docker-compose.yml`, I've defined 2 services. Most of the things here can be deduced with common sense. E.g., We have the `db` service for our Database. and we use `depends_on` directive with `db` as an entry in the `server` service. One can guess (and rightly) that the `server` service depends on the availability of the `db` service. If one starts the `server` service, the `db` service will start automatically as an dependency.

We also have a persistent volume for db so that even if you delete db container, the data stays.

Containerization also enables some rudimentary securities. When you run these services with `docker-compose`, it creates an internal network, seperate from your computer's network. Only the ports from the `expose` directives are being exposed. That means, normally, the `db` service is not accessible from your computer's network. Only other services from the same `docker-compose.yml` file can access the db.

### ! A note on the choice of base image.

1. I haven't chosen `Alpine` images. Yes, the are small, but they are slower also.
2. Not `Debian` also. They are too much restricting. Image processing libraries can give real pain in those images.
3. `Ubuntu` images are balanced, so I've chosen an Ubuntu image with custom scripts for package installations and upgrades so that we can get leaner images.